.\" The man page for the kimsay command
.Dd March 2, 2026
.Dt kimsay 6
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kimsay
.Nd Get some of the wisdom of Precinct 57's best liutenant or make him speak your own.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl rFu
.Op Fl w Ar WRAP
.Op Fl g Ar GAP
.Op Fl n Ar NAME
.Op Fl f Ar artFile
.Op Ar TEXT...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Kimsay
prints an ASCII art framed portrait of Liutenant Kim Kitsuragi followed by some text in the in-game dialog format.
If no arguments are provided it reads from standard input until EOF. Otherwise it concatenates the provided
.Ar TEXTs
, separated by a space.


There are several options available to customize what the program does and how it looks:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl r
.Ar TEXTs
are ignored and random in-game dialog is used instead
.It Fl F
The portrait is painted frameless
.It Fl u
The
.Ar TEXTs
are printed without the in-game dialog format (no character name, no " - " and no tabs after each linebreak)
.It Fl w
The
.Ar TEXTs
are wrapped at
.Ar WRAP
characters. If this option isn't provided,
.Ar WRAP
defaults to 42. Any provided value smaller than 12 is ignored
.It Fl g
The gap between the portrait and the
.Ar TEXTs
is set to a width of
.Ar GAP
characters. This value defaults to 2. Values under 0 are ignored
.It Fl n
Sets the name printed before the provided
.Ar TEXTs
to
.Ar NAME
.It Fl f
Sets the path of the used ascii to
.Ar artFile
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag
.It Pa /usr/share/kimsay/portraits
Contains the default ASCII art files.
.It Pa /usr/share/kimsay/dialog
Contains the archive with the game's dialog in json format.
.El
.Sh AUTHOR
Written by
.An Naft
(IcaroJam@github.com).
.Sh CONTRIBUTING
Any sugestions, contributions or bug reports may be submitted to the project's repository:
.Lk github.com/IcaroJam/kimsay
.Sh COPYRIGHT
All of Disco Elysium's dialog lines and the original art of the portraits, as well as the characters depicted in said art, are property of their respective owners and authors.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cowsay 6